Omid Mehrabian Email : omid.mehrabian@gmail.com
www.linkedin.com/in/mehomid Mobile:+1-613-890-7946
Summery
Looking for a Software Engineering position in an exciting company that requires someone with leadership, a
passion for dealing with complex problems and capability of delivering a model or tool to the customer. I have
more than two years of work experience and a strong academic background in Software Engineering and Machine
Learning.
Skills
• Programming Languages: Python, C#, C, Matlab, Java
• Machine Learning Frameworks: Pandas, Scikit-Learn, Sciypy, Numpy, ,PySpark
• Software Methodology: Agile, Scrum
• Version Control System:Git, GitLab, GitHub
• Databases: HBase, Elastic Search, MySQL
Experience
• Micro Focus Ottawa, ON
Data Integration Engineer(Intern) May 2020 - Aug 2020
 Wrote a script for generating new tables in HBase for dynamic eld mapping for working with dierent
versions of Elastic Search.
 Refactored the code for connecting to the HBase to working with the new Elastic Search and HBase
based on the customer needs.
 Automated the ETL Process using Apache Ni for storing the new schema in Elastic Search and HBase.
 Set up a new cluster on the the Cloudera for the new Elastic Search and HBase.
 Updated the Bash scripts for including new data retention policies for HBase and Elastic Search.
• Micro Focus Ottawa, ON
Data Science(Intern) Jan 2020 - Apr 2020
 Built a data generator from scratch based on the company's new resolution for not using customer's data
and generating new data with similar statistics characteristics to the original data but not traceable.
 Wrote a new python script for connecting to HBase and run multiple SQL queries for extracting stats
from data.
 Used Python Pandas for cleaning and manipulating the extracted data.
 Used PySpark for improving the speed of clustering.
 Resolved the issue for falsely detecting new observed entities as anomalistic behavior by tuning
parameters on gamma function.
• The Pc Room Ottawa, ON
Software Technician Jan 2019 -Dec 2019
 Maintaining the company website.
 Helped with customer's software issues.
Academic Experience
• University Of Ottawa Ottawa, ON
Teaching Assitant Sep 2019 - Dec 2020
 Helped with marking assignments, holding tutorials and lab sessions for introductory courses like
introduction to computing and software engineering.
• University of Khajeh Nasir Toosi Tehran, Teh
Data Science Research Assistant Sep 2016 -Sep 2018
 Assisted in developing a new method for improving K nearest neighbors classication performance.
Selected Projects
• Observing the eects of feature selection algorithms on the performance of supervised machine learning
algorithms for detecting malicious DNS over HTTPS (DoH) using python Pandas and Scikit-learn.
(Current Project)
• Implementing a bot using python for gathering information from users on top of heroku cloud application
platform.
• Implementation of neural networks using Python Scikit-learn for clustering patients with epileptic seizure
based on their EGG Signal.
Education
• University of Ottawa Ottawa, Canada
Master of Science in Computer Science 2019 { 2021
Selected Courses: Machine Learning, AI in Medicine, Algorithm Analysis and Design, Mining Software
Repositories, Ethics in AI
• University of Khajeh Nasir Toosi Tehran, Iran
Master of Science in Articial intelligence and Robotics 2015 { 2017
Selected Courses: Probabilistic Graphical Models, Reinforcement Learning, Data Mining, Neural Networks
• University of Azad Tehran, Iran
Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Engineering 2009 { 2015
Selected Courses: Data Structures, Algorithms, Introduction to Software Engineering
Volunteering
• University of Khajeh Nasir Toosi Tehran, Iran
Cooperation With Executive Committee Of The 25th Iranian On Electrical Engineering(ICEE 2017) 2016 { 2017
Interests
• Running,Tennis, Swimming
• Solving Puzzles, Card Games